Account Guides (#4)
wealthkernel/api-documentation-guides: docs/accounts/Basics.md

---
tags: [Accounts]
---

# Account Basics

> Accounts are an entity which hold information about the type product a client may wish to open, and validate that one or more parties can open a product of that type. Each account can have both multiple Parties and multiple Portfolios associated to it.

Reviewer: `....may wish to open, and validate that one or more parties....`

This transition doesn't quite scan to me, is this saying that an Account "validates that one or more parties can open a product of that type" ? And does that translates in practical terms to kyc checks?

Reviewer: Based on the assumptions in my previous comment, I ran it through:
https://hemingwayapp.com/
and got
```
Accounts hold information about the type of product a client may wish to open. It also validates that one or more parties can open a product of that type. Each account can have both many Parties and many Portfolios associated to it. 
```

Author: I'll try and reword it 👍🏻

---
tags: [Accounts]
---

# Account Basics

> Accounts are an entity which hold information about the type product a client may wish to open, and validate that one of more parties can open a product of that type. Each account can have multiple parties and also have multiple Portfolios.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Accounts are an entity which hold information about the type product a client may wish to open, and validate that one or more parties can open a product of that type. Each account can have both multiple Parties and multiple Portfolios associated to it.
```

For example, here are the links that a JISA would have

![Account-JISA-ER](../../assets/images/accounts/JISA-ER.png)

Or put simply, a JISA is owned by a child and has a registered contact associated with it. It can have one or more portfolios attached to it.

## Account types

There are currently four types of accounts supported

- GIA
- ISA
- JISA
- SIPP

Each of these will have their own requirements for opening, which will be checked upon creation of the account.

<!-- theme: warning -->
> SIPPs are currently in a private beta. If you wish to access them, please contact your account manager for more details

## Account Lifecycle

![Account-Status-SD](../../assets/images/accounts/Status-SD.png)

| Status | Explanation |
|---|---|
| Pending | A very short lived state, before the account has checked whether all the relevant checks for parties have passed, such as KYC. |

> | Active | All checks have passed and the account is available to be used |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Active | All checks have passed and the account is available to be used. |
```
